First articles (#3)
makovstanislav/blog: posts/2022-05-16-what-happens-during-launching.md

---

> title: What happens during launching?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: What happens during launch?
```

> description: This articles explains sequence of program execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This article explains the sequence of program execution
```

image: /images/scala3.png
---

> For running human-written code, it must be translated into machine-readable instructions. And then the machine will able to execute them. 

> In essence, the process of launching the program consists of compilation and execution. In our case, we need to convert Scala code into Java bytecode and execute the result on Java Virtual Machine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In essence, the process of launching the program consists of compilation and execution. In our case, we need to convert Scala code into Java bytecode and execute the result on the Java Virtual Machine. 
```

> So that not to launch these processes manually, we usually use sbt application, which calls different programs. <br>Let's explore what happens once we`ve typed ```$sbt run``` in Terminal.</br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So that not to perform these actions manually, we usually use sbt, which calls different programs. <br>Let's explore what happens once we`ve typed ```sbt run``` in Terminal.</br>
```

<img src="/post_assets/2022-05-16-what-happens-during-launching/running-scheme-3.png" width="700" height="400">

## Step 1: Compilation

> - sbt calls Scala compiler (scalac)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- sbt calls the Scala compiler (scalac)
```

> - scalac converts Scala source code into Java bytecode 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- scalac converts the Scala source code into the Java bytecode
```

Добавь везде артикли перед "Scala code" и "Java bytecode".

> Source code is stored in .scala files. Now we have .class files additionally. They are regular Java class files containing Java bytecode to be executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). By default, scalac generates the class files into the current working directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source code is stored in `.scala` files. After the compilation, we get also the `.class` files. They are regular Java class files containing Java bytecode to be executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). By default, scalac generates the class files into the current working directory. 
```

> Let's fix our current state: the program bytecode is stored in .class files in a separate folder and understandable to the machine.

Reviewer: Эта строчка лишняя, не несет дополнительной информации.

> ## Step 2: Running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Execution
```

> - once the files have been compiled, sbt calls Scala 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- once the files have been compiled, sbt calls `scala`
```

`scala` – команда, Scala – язык.

- Scala calls JVM
- JVM runs the resulting bytecode

**Output:**
Hello, world!

> As we have learned, we just need to type ```$sbt run```  in CLI and sbt will take care of the rest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we have learned, we just need to type `sbt run`  in CLI and sbt will take care of the rest.
```

---
title: What happens during launching?
description: This articles explains sequence of program execution
image: /images/scala3.png
---

> To run human-written code, it must be translated into machine-readable instructions. And then the machine will execute them. 
In essence, the process consists of compilation and execution. In our case, we need to convert Scala code into Java bytecode and execute the result on Java Virtual Machine. 

So that not to launch these processes manually, we normally use sbt application which calls different programs by itself. 

> <br>Let's explore what happens once we`ve typed ```$sbt run``` in Terminal.</br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br>Let's explore what happens once we`ve typed `$sbt run` in Terminal.</br>
```

Три апострофа нужны только когда код начинается с новой строки. Если код в предложении, ставь один апостроф.

<img src="/post_assets/2022-05-16-what-happens-during-launching/running-scheme-3.png" width="700" height="400">

## Step 1: Compilation

- sbt calls Scala compiler (scalac)
- scalac converts Scala source code into Java bytecode 

> Source code is stored in .scala files. Now we also have .class files. They are regular Java class files containing Java bytecode to be executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). By default, scalac generates the class files into the current working directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source code is stored in .scala files.  After the compilation we also have .class files. They are regular Java class files containing Java bytecode to be executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). By default, scalac generates the class files into the current working directory. 
```

> Currently, there is the program bytecode stored in .class files in a separate folder and understandable to the machine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Повторяешь предыдущий параграф.
